wouldn't it be reassuring to imagine
that witch hunts are a thing of the past
that we live in the enlightened age of
the Internet where people are no longer
so eager to tear each other down now I
just draw your attention back to the
very first sentence in this screenshot
even though Jared and I had not been
physical at all she and Jared never
slept together and we have the
screenshots showing Heidi the wife here
directly encouraging them to have sex
together
I'll just put these on screen I won't
read this out and chariot writes back
after these text text messages from his
wife saying like okay you two go ahead
and have sex and he writes back sorry
we went for a walk with lots of
soul-searching period now by contrast
okay someone like rep seein one hundred
and forty three thousand views on this
completely factually false completely
hypocritical moral condemnation approach
Aaron why aren't you following up why
aren't you having some meaningful
discussion or apology or retracted
delete the video but also put up a video
and you know do what a journalist would
do you know New York Times to say
correction on page fourteen you you're
you're really in the wrong here if you
grew up in the United States or Great
Britain you probably grew up with this
phrase witch hunt being a big part of
your education you learned about history
in England in America of literally
hunting and persecuting witches and
sometimes these stories were told to us
as kids with a bit of a wink and a smile
kind of smug a sense of how we're fine
and we'll educated we are in the modern
era compared to the darkness of the dark
ages
sometimes it was instead given as a
cautionary tale say oh but look at the
persecution of communists and a certain
period in American history look at how
witch hunts emerged against homosexuals
another minor
and sometimes it was with the reassuring
sense that the era of witch hunts is
over what the Internet has shown us is
that human nature doesn't change from
the very very first announcement of this
so-called scandal between Pro Jared and
his wife I knew what the situation was
and what I mean is by reading only one
side of the story the most dishonest and
manipulative side of the story is jilted
ex-wife just from her account of events
I could tell what the reality of the
situation was and that reflects Who I am
and my experience with relationships and
even in a sense my level of literacy I
could tell by paying close attention to
what she was saying and what she was not
saying and now in the passage of about
two weeks various sources have come out
including just the collapse of the
ex-wife's case she's basically admitted
the extent to which she lied and misled
people although she does so and with
it's flattering to herself but you know
what carries on the witch-hunt the
witch-hunt mentality these people 700
thousand views on a video harshly
condemning Pro Jared a hundred and forty
thousand views in a video these people
will never apologize
they'll never issue a correction they'll
never even say something as neutralized
Wow I wish I'd bought a book on
journalism 101 and followed basic
procedures of journalistic ethics fact
checking checking sources no he'll never
hear that from them there they're happy
I mean sorry just look at this guy's
face I'm not saying this to shame him
because of his appearance I mean
different people came out of the
woodwork to practice their sense of
moral superiority on this issue some of
them are beautiful and some of them are
ugly but what most of them have in
common is that they do not have a lot of
experience with relationships because
what they have experience with is if
games now these two guys in particular
rep SIA and review tech USA these two
guys I think they have especially little
experience with relations the opposite
sex yeah partly based on appearances rep
C and also I know he had a very
conservative Christian upbringing it's
part of his emergence onto YouTube was
him becoming an atheist and rejecting
that upbringing I know he's someone
who's not really comfortable with his
own sexuality and in this case he got to
demonstrate to the world just how
uncomfortable he is with someone else's
sexuality okay so that you guys know I'm
talking about let's jump to some primary
sources here quote in early 2018 Heidi
told Pro Jared she wanted him to explore
his feelings for me she was enjoying the
advantages of an open relationship
including a long-term boyfriend and
wanted Jared to do the same Jared and
his wife were in an open so-called
polyamorous relationship for reasons
you'll even see within this video I
think it's a lot more responsible to use
the term open relationship and not the
term polyamory you will soon see why
even though Jared and I had not been
physical at all
Heidi called me from Jared's phone and
screamed at me I asked her what she
wanted me to do telling her I would do
anything to help her feel better all she
did was scream go away she continued to
be arranged I conveyed to her that was
happy to just be friends and
professional colleagues at Pro Jared her
response was a fit of rage later in
February 2018 she called me from Jared's
number and how old I want my husband to
think of me not you during sex I tried
to apologize multiple times to Heidi
I tried gifts and words but nothing was
enough for her I wasn't even sure what I
was apologizing for I just wanted to
make her feel better and not be angry
but there was nothing I could do or say
now I just draw your attention back to
the very first sentence in this
screenshot even though Jared and I
had not been physical at all she and
Jared never slept together and we have
the screenshots showing Heidi the wife
here directly encouraging them to have
sex together
I'll just put these on screen I won't
read this out and chariot writes back
after these text text messages from his
wife saying like okay you two go ahead
and have sex and he writes back sorry we
went for a walk with lots of
soul-searching period so you can see his
wife was cool with him having a sexual
relationship with another woman but
evidently actually felt more threatened
by what was just some kind of
intellectual relationship these are all
people who struggle with their sexuality
struggle with relationships struggle to
handle these situations because they're
putting huge amounts of time into
hobbies that are fundamentally childlike
and keep them locked in a rudimentary
stage of development hey it's a hot take
I know but how would you feel if it was
someone with any other kind of
compulsion if it was someone who spent
all their time gambling and playing
cards you'd say well you've kind of
developed the social skills and habits
of someone who spends all his time
hanging out in casinos if it was someone
who was from the earliest years an
athlete let's say a professional boxer a
professional tennis player it's like
look you spent all your time you know in
training and a certain kind of very
strange social situation and now you
come out in the real world and you can't
tell these situations so well but we all
know video games are actually much more
isolating than that the experience of
playing a video game for 12 hours is
more a social it's more socially
retarding let's be honest here than the
experience of being a competitive
athlete or even being a gambler games
got to have some face to face interact
with people unless it's computer
gambling I suppose so look you guys have
already seen this on screen if you're
going to come out and condemn somebody
on the Internet
pause to ask yourself one how would I
feel if someone were doing this to me
and to how it is my cadence differ from
how we discuss this face-to-face in a
top coffee shop Pam says cos I think
there are all kinds of issues that are
worthwhile and important to come out and
morally condemn people about the crown
prince of Norway and is completely
hypocritical statements about ecology
you know sure well there are all kinds
of public figures enough to youtubers
this there's an infinite you know range
of legitimate criticism at any given
time and you gotta question your own
motivation your own means and your own
responsibility and if even if you are a
youtuber you have to think in terms of
journalistic integrity or to be blunt
personal integrity hey guys
I've had controversies on this channel
the single most deeply felt was actually
my book review of motivational methods
for vegan advocacy by Casey Taff that
guy was devastated by negative review I
did his book
let's go back to points 1 & 2 I just
raised exactly what I said in that book
review and even the same cadence I used
I would have said to him face to face in
coffee shop absolutely I'm not ashamed
of what I said or how I said in the book
review at all obviously it's a monologue
rather than a dialogue but I'm not sure
I would break down the same points room
and number one how would I feel some
were doing this me I would feel great I
would be so glad if someone did for a
book or an essay that I've written what
I did in reading that book and when he
got in touch with me that guy he went
all the way he completely lost his
composure but everyone who say he was
completely broken up by this by having
someone you know take apart his book and
a critique in a youtube video um I said
well you know what do you mean I read
your book and my criticism of your book
it's closely following the taxing it
really shows that I've read your book
I'm smart I'm not making something up
about your sex life I'm not making
something up about your relationship
with your wife or your husband I'm not
making something up about your financial
situation and you know all of those
things have happened to me
I've had so many insane conspiracy
theories and completely false rumors
created about me still to this day not a
single not a single complaint about me
was based on anything real weather or
sexual financial otherwise it's all been
lies and I even feel there are things
worth worth criticizing worth the
complaining about you know but it's all
it's all been fiction you know so I just
say that kind of confrontation review I
feel completely morally positive that
what do you mean you published this book
I read it I did a criticism my criticism
is really about the book it's not
assassinating your character or slander
me it's not speaking in response but I'm
not making things up about the book I'm
not lying but what's the book so I would
feel great if someone did this to me
even if they disagree with me and
believe me when you write about Buddhist
philosophy it's so depressing that
nobody is responding to the actual
substance of what you've written I've
had I've had hit peace I've had to
slander against me from Buddhist monks
Buddhist monks in full robes have
written slam someone you know what I'm
talking about human nature doesn't
change we're living in a digitally
amplified world of ever ongoing witch
hunts and I've been the target of that
more than most and it's tragic it's
really sad that today it's it's Pro
Jarrod's turn to mention somebody who
should have a thick skin about this one
of the people who freaked out and hated
me for what I said about Nina and Rhonda
was vegan foot soldier so if you guys
don't know if Egon foot soldier he
basically has a comedy channel makes a
lot of jokes and some of its course
humor some of its crude humor and he
insults people especially people like my
natural being other vegans in the
movement he has really harsh insults
against them sometimes about their
physical appearance I've seen him insult
unnatural begin for being ugly and so on
and being fat and what-have-you so you
might think that guy would have a very
detached down-to-earth attitude about my
critique of of Nina and Randa which
again for me it completely satisfies
those two moans how would I feel if
someone said this me what I said about
Nina Aranda that sparked the controversy
was I said look
within the vegan movement people are
saying you're so beautiful and you can
be great actresses and great musicians
but the reality is you live in Los
Angeles there's a lot of competition and
we as vegans we shouldn't have this
small town mentality like just because
someone's vegan we say they're beautiful
or just because someone's speaking we
say they were a great musician or a
great actor they're not they're just
someone who happens to be vegan and the
reality is when these young women women
in their 20s by the way when they go to
an audition in Los Angeles they're not
outstandingly beautiful they're not
people for whom the doors of Hollywood
are gonna open easily there they
actually have a really tough struggle
ahead of them every time they go to an
audition and again if someone said
exactly the same things about me I would
agree you know I don't think I'm someone
who's good-looking enough that I can get
by on YouTube or whatever that I can
scrape by on my looks so you know I in
various circumstances in my life I think
that's that's worth talking about and is
meaningful and again even the cadence
how I said it and so on you know and
then serve but in that case this relates
back to the main topic here how did I
follow it up we can look on screen we
had some really meaningful conversations
that including some videos I did with my
girlfriend it's a long time ago you may
not remember but you know we did a video
called Nina and Randa say everyone is
beautiful we don't I was talking about
that like look you know some people
subscribe to this thing I'm saying
everyone's people time you know and and
we don't say everyone's brilliant and we
don't say everyone's gifted we don't say
you know we don't say everyone's a
genius we don't say everyone's talented
it's not not our approach to life and
reflecting on that and I have a playlist
called stop treating women like infants
it's all very meaningful discourse I
really stand behind now by contrast okay
someone like rep seein one hundred and
forty three thousand views on this
completely factually false completely
hypocritical moral condemnation of Pro
Jared why aren't you following up why
aren't you having some meaningful
discussion or apology or retraction
delete the video but also put up a video
and you know do what a journalist would
do you know New York Times to say
correction on page 14
you you're you're really in the wrong
here factually wrong and morally wrong
the other guy the the fat guy review
tech USA it's shameful in that picture
that image of that's that's frame one of
the video he opens giggling laughing he
would yet gleeful disregard for the
truth gleeful disregard for the facts
he was smugly glorying in another
person's misfortune
absolutely absolutely zero personal
integrity I'm leaving out the most
salacious screenshots that absolutely
confirm the brutally sexual nature of
the open relationship that Pro Jared and
his ex-wife had I don't blame them why
do you think grown adults go to cosplay
events this is basically a form of BDSM
for grownups
it's candy-coated BDSM it's really not
so different from the people who want to
dress up in skin tight leather and skin
tight latex and go to those events in a
lot of the people who go to those two
types of events are the same people the
people who have a dedicated walk-in
closet for this kind of ludicrously vain
complex outfit and they're going there
to meet some of those other people they
can connect with on that wavelength yeah
in some ways there's more to it than
that and in some ways there's less to it
than that they're people who are into
some kind of kinky open relationship sex
who also want to meet someone who plays
the same video games they play or watch
the same Japanese movies they play sure
but guess what I think if you go to the
the leather or clubs if you go to BDSM
events people they are also one of me
people who watch the same movies they
watch on dating websites it's the same
crap it's so depressing if you're single
you look at the one of the main things
is oh I love Lord of the Rings I play
dungeon chariots oh my god that's what
that's what a lot of people want to meet
so I don't I don't hate them for that I
think sex can be meaningful in adult
people's lives
and I do not think that playing Megaman
on the Sony Playstation can be
meaningful in adult lives so if there's
anything in this guy's life I harshly
judge and condemn it's not the sex and I
mean it just reflects the type of people
doing this this which on how how lacking
they are and you know any any sympathy
for any understanding for grownups who
want to live like grown-ups as I said in
the earlier video this guy is not Big
Bird this guy did not pretend to be a
children's entertainment channel or a
children's entertainer or a school
teacher or anything else you're judging
him by a standard he never tried to live
up to now on the other hand I think
there are standards all of us have to
live up to I think that everyone should
try to be an exemplary human being and I
think that starts by putting away
childish things it starts by recognizing
you know the danger and the difficulty
of being an adult on planet earth and
the few years you've got to make a
positive difference in other people's
lives for the planet and the few years
you've got to try to become a better
person yourself even though Pro Jared
and I had a long-standing professional
platonic relationship Heidi wanted us to
never speak again she became extremely
jealous and vindictive both Jared and I
were scared of her I don't know when's
pro Jared started having feelings but I
didn't realize that I had them at all
until then it was like being pushed into
ice water I've talked about being
asexual for years I never expected to
have feelings for him and it was
terrifying on February 7th 2018 Pro
Jared took me on a walk despite having
Haiti's full permission to do more all
we did was talk about our feelings Jared
and I were transparent about our
discussion with both Heidi and all
others involved with the situation so
guess what guys the original sexually
transmitted disease is love so this
could be a kind of heartwarming tale
about two nerdy inept video game
addicted people
whoo you know we're in this kinky
situation where they weren't encouraged
to have sex they decided not to have sex
but they ended up falling in love so
again you can see this on screen briefly
this is Heidi giving her direct consent
for her husband to have sex with this
woman but evidently she did not give her
consent for them to develop meaningful
feelings with each other when projared
responded to Heidi's Facebook post
neutrally she then enacted the vengeance
she'd been planning for a long time she
lied about not being polyamorous not
having an open relationship and she lied
about approving of the nudes she
slut-shamed me she did not mention her
long-term boyfriend or threats so the
point is the boyfriend other than her
husband in addition to her husband
here are some statements from Heidi of
her gloating I could not for the life of
me find Jared's gold play button that's
the plaque they send out to people who
cross the 1 million subscriber threshold
I found both his silver play buttons but
not the gold it would have been the
perfect thing to steal from him because
if he asked about it I could say what
million subscribers question mark
question mark anyway I guess this is my
confession of innocence I didn't steal
it but I would have if I could have
these are just statements showing that
she was in a vindictive spiral of trying
to take revenge against this guy and
destroy his life Angie can you imagine
can you imagine a responsible journalist
checking against this kind of thing were
considering again to me it was odd
whenever the first statement the first
statement on Twitter I already knew the
whole story I'm be honest I didn't guess
90% of it I guessed 100% of it and I
think it was obvious to kind of people
who have some kind of sophisticated
background with relation the objects and
guess what guys sympathy is an
analytical tool I can even sympathize
with Heidi's side of the story she was
stupid and immature and vindictive and
evil and wrong but she was cool with sex
with other people
she explicitly talks about three ways
with two men and one woman
explicitly talks about two women and one
men and other women watching them and
other women wanting photos of them and
him naked it spelled out there okay and
she lied she lied saying that there were
screenshots on a phone she had
discovered that we're gonna back up her
side of the story and it has been the
opposite she's admitted she doesn't have
evidence versus story and on the
contrary the screenshots from phones are
completely confirming Pro generates
Story number five in the United States
baby here she's gloating about how
popular her her tweet is her tweet
denouncing her husband her ex-husband
blank said I made him more famous than
he's ever been before honestly yeah this
is an insanely positive outcome to a
horrible situation that I couldn't
predict I don't know if it'll last me
the rest of my life or whatever but I'm
definitely gonna save her it so here we
have Heidi gloating about her notoriety
or the arm she's doing here Jared and
Holly won't address his sexual
interactions with fans because they've
been legally advised not to there's no
quote/unquote rule not to speak about
ongoing litigation it's just in their
best interest not to address it in case
they say something incriminating shame
on you patty shame on you think about
what you're doing here you're trying to
condemn him out of silence after you've
admitted that you had no evidence one
way or another you just stirred the pot
to try to get fans to make up stories or
share a rumor innuendo that would
condemn this guy they have addressed it
and then what they've established is
that you're a liar you're a liar and
your way of getting out of the lie is by
admitting you never know what you were
talking about quote I'll reiterate that
I didn't specifically bring those
allegations against him I only had
supporting evidence that indicated he
was up to something
not true proof but I do believe the
people who have come forward since then
right
here's here's more backpedaling
half-truths and covering up lies I never
claimed we had a traditional marriage I
just gave the facts that mattered I
didn't approve of a polyamorous
situation between Jared and Holly even
that is a lie you've just seen the
evidence that's a lie I tried to support
it and they immediately broke my trust
I'm allowed to revoke consent you elect
a lot you're allowed to lie about it
after the fact is that what you're
saying
Heidi I mean again I I knew all this
from the first message I could tell this
was the game being played from what she
said and what she left unsaid
quote consenting boundaries aren't hard
to understand Jared and Holly
continually gasps let me by pretending
to not get it no matter how many times I
explained in detail I was direct
specific sincere I always felt
intentionally misunderstood
I had nothing to hide from Jared he was
up to date and aware of my interactions
I had with this one other person so this
is the other long-term boyfriend she had
and it does in addition to her husband I
wonder why you're stating that's so
vaguely Heidi you're real explicit when
you want to be in a real fake the rest
of the time there were no lies no
cheating no boundaries crossed on my
part that was all I wanted from any
polyamorous situation period I didn't
get that from him I told you all at the
very beginning that I'm not perfect or
blameless don't idolize me I am a
hurting person who will continue to
address my own mistakes
I've grown tremendously this past year I
know that's the only path to finding
real inner peace but you did it Heidi
also with the lie that you had this cell
phone full of information showing out
there was one I didn't see a single
journalist doing basic fact-checking
basic journalistic ethics were neither
on YouTube nor in print what have you
wouldn't it be reassuring to imagine
that witch hunts are a thing of the past
that we live in the enlightened age the
Internet where people are no longer so
eager to tear each other down what I see
is a great deal of insecurity from
people who don't feel intelligent
themselves and you want to demonstrate
through any little vindictive way they
can that they're smarter than other
people
people who don't feel morally confident
themselves and you want to vindictively
tear down others and prove you're not as
moral as you think you are ultimately
it's this old pattern of behavior who do
you think you are don't you know who I
think I am we're living in a future that
is increasingly lacking in privacy the
challenge now is to ask how can we live
with dignity in the absence of privacy
when you think about it there's no real
particular dignity in just keeping a
secret there's nothing particularly
moral in living an immoral life that
other people don't judge you for just
because they don't know what we need to
practice as a culture as a
world-spanning civilization is going to
work with a co-worker when you know
they've got nude pictures of themselves
somewhere on the internet and still
treating them with respect still
treating them with dignity before the
camera was ever invented people were
still naked they were still swimming
naked or doing all kinds of things naked
outside of office hours and you still
had to learn the discipline of treating
them with dignity even though you may
not approve of what they do in their
personal life I think we see that
challenge before eyes now more than ever
before it's a challenge for the people
doing the judging as much as it is a
challenge for those of us who are
putting our face here on YouTube and
being judged
[Music]